ever wonder why it was the fish that
became such an important symbol in the
Christian Church and not something like
flaming Tiger head that spent swords
well you're in luck because we're
talking about the sign of the fish in
this episode of Chuck knows Church
hey wait up buddy
since I was a kid in church
I remember hearing so many references to
fish like in the Gospels when Jesus said
I will make you fishers of men
or when the disciples got stuck with
only five loaves and two fish to feed
thousands and Jesus made it happen
I want the first disciples fisherman
Peter Andrew James job so no surprise
how the fish are more specifically the
sign of the fish became a way for
Christians to identify each other you
see after the tomb was found empty and
Jesus was resurrected it wasn't always
safe till around town as a follower of
Christ believers were ridiculed and
persecuted and in the beginning
non-believers far outnumber the
Christians so to make sure it was safe
to talk about Jesus and the good news
the sign of the fish became a sort of
secret handshake for strangers see the
first stranger might simply draw a line
on the ground kind of like this which
could then be completed with a second
line drawn by another person like this
indicating a fish or hey I'm a Christian
too not to be confused with hey go to
Red Lobster and if they are at risk of
being exposed as Christians it could be
erased
just as fast
all clear
see you on down the road good buddy just
two Christians
making a connection with the sign of the
fish long before the invention of the
bumper decal
now if you want to learn more ask your
pastor tell them Chuck sent you